- After you've settled into your new position
and are starting to feel more comfortable in the role,
it's a good time to do an inventory of your skills
to find areas you can further develop.
Let's do a quick benchmark of where you should generally be
at this point in your career.
For this, I'm going to assume that in your new position
you're working full stack or specialized
on either the front-end or the back-end
of a web application.
Let's start first with the front-end.
At this point, you should be fairly confident
when using the basic web technologies
and starting to deepen your understanding
of single page application frameworks,
like Angular or React.
You're likely to have been exposed to CSS frameworks
like Bootstrap, at this point, which can help you develop
responsive user interfaces
that work across different devices.
If you feel a little behind in any of these areas
and you're using them quite frequently on the job,
it's worth scheduling out some time to revisit them
and deepen your understanding.
Now let's turn our attention to the back-end.
At this point, you should be solid on the basic features
of the language you're working with
and starting to write more sophisticated code
that leverages object-oriented programming concepts.
You should also be comfortable with modeling data
and able to store and access it within relational databases.
If you haven't encountered them,
you'll want to explore different types of databases
and object relational mapping frameworks
that can make you more proficient.
The same goes for back-end frameworks
that can help you more quickly build out different features
in your team's product.
After a few months on the job, you'll start to recognize
the value provided by other people's code,
which is why frameworks are so important.
Large systems are rarely self-contained and isolated.
They need to interact and integrate
with other systems in the organization.
Most frameworks provide built-in modules
to perform these integrations, and it's rare
to write the low-level code that connects to systems.
In modern system architectures, the most popular method
of integrating two systems is via an API or service,
so you'll want to get familiar with them.
The key to understanding web APIs is to first learn
about the HTTP protocol in depth.
Early in my career, I made it a point to read
the HTTP specification from end to end,
and it still benefits me frequently.
Some systems make use of other mechanisms like ETL,
messaging, or file transfers to exchange information,
depending upon the situation.
It's another learning target to shoot for at this stage
in your career, especially if they're used
by the system you're working on.
It's also really important to learn
and follow security best practices.
At a minimum, you'll need to understand
how to write secure code
that mitigates common system vulnerabilities.
If this doesn't sound familiar to you, I recommend reading
about the top 10 most common security vulnerabilities
on the Open Web Application Security Projects website
so you can learn how to prevent them.
Becoming more proficient with your tools will be beneficial
as you solidify your understanding
of the technologies we discussed.
Advancing your capabilities with the source control system
will allow you to work independently
when you need to fix a commit, or resolve a merge conflict,
which is likely to occur now that you're working
in a larger team.
At this point in my career, I also invested heavily
in learning how to work faster in the IDEs I was using
by learning the shortcuts and templates
that made it faster to write code.
Although it can be a little intimidating,
learning the basics of how to work with PowerShell
and Bash via the command line will benefit you later
in your career with other technologies like containers.
Finally, you should be pairing with other developers
to learn how your CICD system is used
to release the team's product.
Ask to look over the shoulder of a senior developer
when they're performing the release procedures,
and take notes, because one day,
it will be your responsibility.
So that's quite the list.
And you may have noticed that I repeated a few items
that we discussed earlier in the course.
That's because no matter how much you work with a language,
technology or tool, there's always something new to learn,
and that's now a key part of your job.